# User manual

## Accounts
Using the application requires an account. To create an account, click the
"Register" button on the right side of the navigation bar. Choose a username and
a password, which you will use when logging in. The password must be typed twice
to reduce the likelihood of spelling mistakes. After successfully registering,
you will be automatically logged in.

When logged in, your username is displayed at the right side of the navigation
bar. You can log out of the application by clicking the "Logout" link on the
navigation bar next to the username.

Logging in takes you to the front page which shows statistics about your account
as well as the accounts with most recipes in their recipe book. You can access
the landing page any time by clicking the logo "Recipe Book" on the left side of
the navigation bar.

You can change the password of your account by clicking the "My Account" link on
the navigation bar. Then click the "Change password" button and follow the
instructions to change the password.

You are able to delete your account by clicking the "Delete account" button on
the "My Account" page. You will be asked for a confirmation. After confirming
the deletion, your account and all data associated with it will be permanently
deleted. Note that there is no way to recover a deleted account.

## Recipes
You can see your recipes at the recipes page, which you can open by clicking the
"Recipes" link on the navigation bar. Here recipes can be added, viewed and
removed.

To add a recipe, click the "Add recipe" button, fill in the recipe details and
click "Save". You can cancel the operation by clicking the "Cancel" button.

To show the full recipe, click the "Details" button on a recipe. Here you can
view the full details of the recipe To edit a recipe, click the "Edit" button.
After editing the recipe, you can save the edits by pressing the "Save" button,
or discard the edits by clicking the "Cancel" button.

To delete a recipe, click the "Delete" button on a recipe. You will be asked for
a confirmation. If you proceed, the recipe will be deleted permanently.

You can search recipes by using the search field on the recipes page. The
"Filters" button allows selecting what the search query should match. The "Show
all" button clears the search settings and shows all recipes.

## Shopping list
You can open your shopping list by clicking the "Shopping List" button on the
navigation bar.

Items can be added by clicking the "Add item" button.

To edit an item, click the "Edit" button on the item you want to edit. The
"Save" button will save the edits, and the "Cancel" button will discard the
edited values.

To remove an item from the list, click the "Remove" button on the item you want
to remove. The item will be removed permanently.

## Administration features
Accounts can be either regular user accounts or admin accounts. A user account
is required for using the application, such as adding and viewing recipes and
using the shopping list. Admin accounts can perform all actions a regular user
can. In addition, admin accounts can view, add and modify all accounts in the
system.

Admins can manage accounts by clicking the "Manage Accounts" button on the
navigation bar. Accounts are shown in a table. Role column specifies whether the
account is a regular user account or an admin account. The accounts can also be
searched using the search form above the table.

New accounts can be added by clicking the "Add account" button.

Accounts can be edited by clicking the "Edit".

Accounts can be deleted by clicking the "Delete" button. After confirming the
deletion, the account and all data associated with it will be deleted. Note that
there is no way to recover a deleted account.
